Let us see those patterns.
Suppose we have an object of type String,
which is just the hello string, we can get a reference on the String class,
which is the class this error object is an instance of,
by calling the getClass method on that hello object.
In fact, the getClass method is defined on the object class,
so it is always possible to call this method on any object of your application.
It is worth noticing that if you call the getClass
method on another string object, what you get is a reference on this same object.
On this example, if I compare the two instances,
Hello class and World class, using ==, it will return true.
Hello class and World class are, in fact,
two references on the same class object,
and this is something which is true for all the classes in an application.
A Java application only loads a class once so you have only one
instance of a given class at a given time.
If you check the exact signature of the getClass method from the Object class,
you will see that it returns, in fact, a class of question mark type,
and this is worth pointing out because it may lead to very
confusing compile errors when you are trying to write code
that is using this getClass method.
If you just call it on the string of character and put the
result in a type Class of question mark,
well,
it is just working just because the type is the
same as the getClass return type.
But if you try to put the results in a Class of String,
which may look natural, then you will get this odd compiler error.
In fact,
Hello .getClass if follows a String of character cannot be
put in a variable of type Class of String,
and it cannot be put in a variable of type Class of Object neither,
which may look even more confusing.
The reason of that lies in the way generics are working in Java.
In fact,
Class of String or Class of Object are not extensions of Class of question mark.
This is the reason why the compiler will give you this error.
If you want to write this kind of code,
what you need to write really is the following.
Class of question mark extends String or even Class?
extends Object. The first of this type is the exact type of Hello .getClass.